[singing in Japanese]
[narrator]
The Nautilus set course
for its secret base
deep inside
the Antarctic Continent.
Many of our heroes were
anxious about the journey,
but Jean was overjoyed at the
prospects of exploration.
Upon their arrival,
the submarine was attacked
by a prehistoric nautilus
shellfish.
The ship narrowly escaped
and continued their quest
for the secret of Blue Water.
[dramatic music playing]
[horn blaring]
[machine whirring]
[dramatic music intensifying]
At last!
[Jean]
Whoa!
What an extraordinary place.
I cannot believe
a facility like this
exists in the South Pole!
[laughs]
[shrieking]
-[Marie] It's hot!
-[Nadia] It's hot!
Who was the one
who said that
the South Pole was ice cold?
-[groans] It's too hot!
-It's too hot!
-Too hot! Too hot!
[both sigh]
[chuckles]
[both]
Reprobate!
Real cold, Jean.
Huh!
I don't understand.
It's supposed to be cold.
[Electra]
But not down here.
We are far beneath
the cold surface.
The molten lava below us
keeps this place
perfectly warm.
[all]
Oh!
[Electra]
On the ice above us,
the temperatures
can get so low
that even your breath freezes.
However, the temperatures
below us
could melt even
the strongest steel.
[all]
Oh.
[Electra]
Several thousand years ago,
the Atlanteans built this base
on the shores of this vast
subterranean lake.
But no one has ever explored
the rest of this continent
and live to tell about it.
Oh.
So, Ms. Electra--
You were going
to ask my permission
to explore our incredible base
beneath the ice, weren't you?
Uh, yes. Will you let me?
You'd do it anyway.
Oh, well, go on.
I can? Oh, boy!
[Grandis]
So this is the supply base
we've heard so much about.
I don't suppose
you mine any diamonds
from those mineral deposits
over there?
Nope.
Over there is
our supply of iron ore,
bauxite, and manganese.
It's a veritable treasure
trove of vital materials.
Wow!
Hey, Eiko,
what is the purpose of that
tank exhaust pipes there?
That's the oil supply.
This space is far below
the earth's surface.
So the crude flows down
instead of up.
-Yeah?
If we took that oil,
we'd be rich.
But how would you do it?
You will need a ship
much bigger than ours for that.
-Huh?
-Hmm?
[both sobbing]
And that's why I hate men.
They always think
with their wallets. Huh!
Chief Engineer,
this is the bridge.
What is the status
of your repairs?
Chief Engineer to bridge,
we will need at least 15 hours
in order to complete our work.
Very well.
-[Nemo] First Officer.
-Sir.
I'm going to shore for a while.
Have all repairs finished
in 16 hours
and prepare to set sail
at 0700 tomorrow.
Aye, aye.
As you were, officer.
Aye, aye, sir.
He's going to that place.
Attention all hands,
repairs must be done
within 16 hours.
We will be shipping out
at 0700 tomorrow morning.
Hmm.
-[King purring]
-Hmm.
[playful music playing]
It's your turn, Marie.
Mm-hmm.
[grunts]
[King purring]
Wow!
Huh! Now, that is
a work of a real man!
-Huh!
-Huh?
-Oh!
-[laughing]
-I can't tell which one of them
-is the child, can you?
-[Sanson sobbing]
-[gasps]
-Children, put on warm clothes,
I need you to come with me
right away.
Aye!
Didn't you hear what he said?
Well, is that an order?
It is.
I understand.
-[Nemo] Hurry up!
-Captain Nemo?
May I come with you, too?
Marie, comes, too!
I'm sorry,
no one else is invited.
-[sighs]
-Huh?
-Hmm.
-[King purring]
[Jean]
Amazing.
Are we going to ride in that?
Yes, Jean.
[machine whirring]
[dramatic music playing]
Wow!
Oh, look, Nadia,
it's the Antarctic ice.
We're actually traveling
through an ice tunnel.
[gasps]
What was that?
It looked like a tree branch.
[Nemo] It was.
That is the World Tree.
[Jean]
The World Tree?
[Nemo]
Yes. A tree of enormous size.
Its roots spread
throughout the globe
that holds up the skies
and is said to be
the source of all life.
If a tree that size could have
grown on this continent,
then I'll bet Antarctica
must have had
a much warmer climate
a long time ago.
Don't be ridiculous, Nadia.
Continents can't move
around at will.
They are too large.
This is where this place
has always been.
[Nemo]
No, Jean.
-Hmm?
-[Nemo] Nadia is correct.
Only a man's arrogance assumes
that the ground beneath
our feet is fixed in place.
Huh?
Tell me, what do you think is
the most important tool
a scientist uses?
His sixth sense.
-What?
-His mind's eye if you will.
Do you know what
the world map looks like?
[Jean]
Yes.
Then imagine
in your mind's eye
the coastlines of the Americas,
Europe, and Africa.
[both]
Uh-huh.
Do you see how those coastlines
might possibly fit together?
-I see.
-They do?
[Jean]
They're a perfect fit.
Even so, it's kind of
hard to believe
they can move around like that.
It is impossible for 19th
century technology to prove
that these continental
movements occur.
But one day in the future,
science will find
definitive proof that they do.
Oh.
The seed of all discovery
is in the mind's eye.
It is up to each man
to see that,
and that, my good boy,
is science.
Right.
[metals clanking]
-[clears throat]
-[gasps] What can I do for you?
Do you happen to know
where Captain Nemo is?
He's gone to shore
for a little while.
He took Jean and Nadia.
Oh, to see him?
Yes.
I'm quite certain that's
where he has taken them.
Hmm.
It's good he went.
He deserves a chance to bid
him goodbye.
[elevator bell dings]
Wow! How incredible.
-[shivering]
-[gasps]
The compass needle won't stop.
What does that mean?
We're in the apex
of the Earth's magnetic fields.
-[Nemo] Jean, Nadia.
-[both] Huh?
Come over here and quickly.
Yes, sir!
-Hmm.
-Sorry.
Hmm. What is that?
[Nemo]
A mobile corridor.
It looks like a row of bars
laid crosswise.
Look closer.
My word,
they're floating on air.
Right. You see?
Magnetic force.
It counteracts gravity
and moves them.
A great invention.
But who discovered
such a thing?
The Atlanteans
over 20,000 years ago.
-Oh!
-It's a relic of a lost empire.
Now, we must get on.
Right.
Unbelievable.
I wonder how the power of
gravity's pull
can be decreased.
Jean!
What is it?
There's something out there.
[Jean]
Oh.
What are those?
Prehistoric beasts?
[Nadia] They look like angels.
[Jean] They look more like
devils to me.
Captain Nemo, what are those?
[Nemo]
This is like a museum in ice.
[both]
A museum?
[Nemo]
That's correct.
Long extinct species of animals
are preserved forever here.
I saw something.
There were some creatures
that looked like dragons
holding spears.
[Nemo]
Homodinasonics.
-[both] Huh?
-[Nemo] Saurians,
at one time,
they ruled over the Earth.
They had the uncanny ability
to swiftly adapt
their physiology
to environmental changes.
They evolved very quickly
and established
a civilization on Earth
long before man.
They were the planet's
first inhabitants.
However, 70 million years ago,
black spots on our Sun
bombarded the Earth
with mutating cosmic rays.
And the Saurians
vanished forever.
Remember this,
man did not create
intelligence.
That lesson must not be
forgotten.
[both]
Yes.
[Jean]
Life is such a mystery.
[Nadia]
That it is.
[Jean]
Ah! Look how big it is.
What could be inside?
[both gasp]
[gasps]
Look!
[Jean]
There are penguins!
Oh.
[penguins cawing]
-They just--
-They just--oh.
[dramatic music playing]
[Jean]
Amazing.
[Nadia]
It's like a palace made of ice.
We have arrived.
What's inside there?
You will see.
[intense music playing]
[both scream]
-Oh.
Jean, what is it?
I don't know.
[Nemo]
It has been a long time.
What?
[gasps]
Jean, what happened to you?
[Irion]
Greetings, old friend.
-[gasps]
-[Irion] It's good to see you.
Who's there?
♪ The Secret Blue Water
What are you?
What is happening now
and whose voice
did I just hear?
[gasps]
Captain Nemo?
[Nemo]
I see.
Please come over here now,
the both of you.
It's all right.
Yes, Captain.
I brought them with me.
This is Nadia,
and the boy's name is
Jean Raltique.
Children, this is my good
friend, Irion.
This whale is your friend?
Irion?
Yes, that's his name.
-Oh.
-Captain, it's so amazing
that you're friends
with a whale.
[gasps]
Just like you and King.
He would like to speak to you.
[Jean]
Speak to us?
So, I will wait outside.
But wait!
You have nothing to fear.
All right.
-Huh?
-Oh.
-[Irion] So, you are Nadia.
-[gasps]
I can't believe it.
You really are
speaking to me now.
[Irion]
That is true.
I am speaking
directly to your heart.
You can do that?
[Irion]
I can.
It is simple when
we use the Blue Water.
Oh, you're using
the Blue Water.
[Irion]
I am.
You don't have to speak.
You must only think
of what you want to say.
I'll try.
Is there something you want
to say to Captain Nemo?
[Irion]
No. We have already
exchanged our farewells.
[Nadia]
Farewells?
[Irion]
Yes.
We will not be seeing each
other again on this Earth.
[Nadia]
Why not?
[Irion]
I have lived too long.
My life will soon be over.
[Nadia]
Too long? How long is that?
[Irion]
During my lifetime,
the Earth has circled the Sun
20,000 times.
[Nadia]
Twenty thousand?
[Irion]
That is true.
According to
the human calendar.
[Nadia]
Through those years,
you have witnessed
the history of mankind?
[Irion]
Yes.
They are most interesting
species of life
that create wars to seek peace
and wage them to destroy.
They are the most interesting
species indeed.
[Nadia]
That can't be.
[Irion]
But it is the truth.
[dramatic music playing]
[Nadia]
What was that?
[Irion]
I sent you some images
from my memory.
[Nadia]
I'm afraid we are
as you say we are.
[Irion]
Man is an interesting
species of life,
but not a foolish one.
[gasps]
[Irion]
That is my belief.
Nemo is my last friend.
As his final gift,
he introduced
both of you to me.
I'm very grateful for that.
He believes in you
and has entrusted
the future to you.
Please honor his trust in you.
That is my final wish.
To make a new friend is
the most precious thing
and it is my gift to you.
I will tell you
what you are seeking.
[gasps]
[Irion]
The person you are looking for
is very close to you.
[gasps]
[Irion]
Also, you will soon meet
a very unexpected person.
[Nadia]
An unexpected person?
[gasps]
My brother?
I have--is this true?
I have a brother?
[Irion]
I feel that I will have
a wonderful dream tonight.
Thank you, my children.
Farewell, the inheritors of
the Blue Water.
But wait! There's more
I want to know!
Nadia, are you all right?
You look dazed.
Huh?
The Blue Water started
shining again,
-and then everything went dark.
-It did?
Mm-hmm. It went dark
immediately after that.
Oh, was that all just a dream?
Let's go, Jean.
[Jean]
All right.
Huh?
[penguin caws]
Hello to you, too.
You mean you can understand
what it's saying?
I guess so.
I've never done that before.
-[penguin caws]
-Huh?
It's telling us where to go.
Do you think it wants us
to follow it to Captain Nemo?
[penguin caws]
It seems that way.
-Hmm. Let's go.
-Okay.
[Jean]
That's amazing!
You actually talked
to the whale?
That's right.
You mean you're the only one
who can hear what they
are saying?
Why is that?
I guess because--well,
the whale said
it was because of
the Blue Water.
Hmm.
So, what did you
talk to him about?
I can't tell you now.
Maybe I can later, Jean.
-Oh.
-Tell me, boys,
do you know where
Captain Nemo is?
-Hmm?
But how should we know?
What did you say?
Uh, I mean, I don't know where
he is, Ms. Grandis.
-That was much better.
-Whoa!
How about you?
[both]
Nuh-uh.
I see.
Well, I guess you just want
broth for dinner, don't you?
[all] No. We'll go find them
for you, ma'am.
Ah!
They are so well-disciplined.
[both]
She's so frightening.
-[both scream]
-Captain Nemo, my love,
why have you abandoned me?
We are going to the surface.
The surface? Will we see it?
We will.
Oh, boy!
[elevator bell dings]
[both gasp]
[Jean]
Oh, it's so wide.
[Nadia]
And cold.
[sighs]
It sure does get
dark fast here.
[Nemo]
Jean.
-[Jean] Yes, sir.
-[Nemo] This is it.
-The South Pole.
-[gasps]
Oh.
You've arrived.
[Jean]
Ha-ha! This is incredible.
I'm standing right on
the South Pole.
Ha! I have done it!
But Captain Nemo is the person
who brought you here, Jean.
It's true.
I didn't get here on my own.
No, you didn't, Jean.
We are here with the help of
the Nautilus
and the people of Atlantis.
No man in all of history has
ever set foot on this place.
But in the next century,
man will learn to break
through the ice
and reach this point
by his own power.
I put my faith in the
inexorable will of mankind.
-Oh!
-[gasps]
[dramatic music playing]
[Jean]
What is that?
-[Nemo] An aurora.
-[Jean] And what's that?
Divine.
[Nemo] In scientific terms,
electrons and protons
from the sun
strike Earth's atmosphere
and create this phenomenon.
Of course, scientific terms
describe beauty quite poorly.
[Nadia]
A tear?
It can't be.
[Irion]
He believes in you
and has entrusted
the future to you.
[Jean]
Okay. It's ready.
What's this?
It's called ice cream.
Ice cream?
Yes. I prepared it right here
in my automatic
ice cream maker.
-Huh.
-You made that?
[Jean]
I made just for you, Marie.
[King purrs]
Go ahead and try.
[all slurping]
Oh, my head is
suddenly hurting.
Ow! Ow! Ow! Ow!
Huh? Huh?
-But it's good.
-[King purrs]
Do you like it?
I had no idea that ice cream
is so delicious until now.
And I made it using
the ice from the South Pole.
Oh.
The ice here is about
12,000 years old.
It's like we're eating
the Earth's history.
Oh, I didn't know
the South Pole was so little.
[laughter]
Twelve thousand years,
even compared
to the age of this ice cream,
a typical homosapien's lifespan
is incredibly brief.
The most important thing
is how that lifespan is spent.
[Grandis sneezes]
[all shivering]
Well, what's happened to you?
We've been looking for
Captain Nemo.
So we went to the surface.
[both] You went out there
without parkas?
We thought it would
be warm down here.
-It's all just ice.
-[all shivering]
[laughter]
-[Marie] Bad luck for you!
-[laughing]
[upbeat music playing]
[singing in Japanese]